feat: Refactor integration hooks type (#11304)
withastro/astro: .changeset/curvy-otters-jog.md

---
'astro': minor

> '@astrojs/db': minor

Reviewer: We should create a new changeset only for `@astrojs/db` that shows the migration path of the new type. Since this is a breaking change, I believe this should stand out in the changelog

Reviewer 2: Just noting that I'll review here when I have a docs PR!

Author: It is barely even a breaking change for `@astrojs/db` though. It breaks something we never said was there (the `AstroDbIntegration` type). The helper `defineDbIntegration` method [shown on the docs](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/astro-db/#building-astro-db-integrations) continues to work with no changes.

The main difference is requiring the new version of `astro`.

But I'll write that up either way

---

Refactor type for integration hooks to be extensible from an interface on the global `Astro` namespace.

> To declare your own hooks for integrations extend the interface like so:

Reviewer: We should tell users **where** this snippet should be pasted/used

---
'astro': minor
---

> Refactor type for integration hooks to be extensible from an interface on the global `Astro` namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds support for writing custom integration hooks to allow runtime interactions between your integration and other integrations.
```
Something of this style maybe, to more explicitly describe the use case? (Vs the change to the code)

Reviewer 2: Coming back to this again, and thinking that because the change primarily is a refactor, it would be nice to assure people that this will not break existing code. So I think we can get both a use case and an implementation change in here. What do you think? (I updated my suggestion

> To declare your own hooks for integrations extend the interface by adding the following code in your integration:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To declare your own hooks for your integration, extend the `Astro.IntegrationHooks` interface:
```
nit: we only say "add the following code" if it's something they should actually copy and paste. This is a generic model of the shape of code to provide, and "adding" it wouldn't help them.

```ts
// your-integration/types.ts
declare global {
  namespace Astro {
    interface IntegrationHooks {
      'myLib:eventHappened': (your: string, parameters: number) => Promise<void>;
    }
  }
}
```

> Call your hooks on all integrations when you want to trigger them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Call your hooks on all other integrations installed in a project at the appropriate time. For example, you can call your hook on initialization before before either the Vite or Astro config have resolved:
```

```ts
// your-integration/index.ts
import './types.ts';

export default (): AstroIntegration => {
  return {
    name: 'your-integration',
    hooks: {
      'astro:config:setup': async ({ config }) => {
        for (const integration of config.integrations) {
          await integration.hooks['myLib:eventHappened'].?('your values', 123);
        }
      },
    }
  }
}
```

> Other integrations can now declare your hooks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other integrations can also now declare your hooks:
```
